# Dynamics, Hover Configurations, and Rotor Failure Restabilization of a Morphing Quadrotor

This is the code for the paper

[*Dynamics, Hover Configurations, and Rotor Failure Restabilization of a Morphing Quadrotor*](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8431628)

Trevor Avant, Unsik Lee, Brian Katona & Kristi Morgansen, *American Control Conference (ACC) 2018*

## code

All code is written in Mathematica and Matlab.

## dynamics (Section II)
* **dynamics derivation**: run `mathematica/dynamics.nb`
  * *Note:* This will output 3 text files: `M.txt`, `h.txt`, and `Q.txt`. The contents of these files are intended to be copied into the Matlab dynamics file `dx.m`. This has already been done, so it is not necessary to run the .nb file again. Additionally, running this file may take a long time.


## hover configurations (Section III)
* **hover recovery simulation**: see `mathematica/equilibrium_math.nb`

## rotor failure restabilization (Section IV)

* **system overview diagrams (Figures 1 & 2)**: run `matlab/plot/plot_overview_diagrams.m`

* **hover recovery simulation (Figures 3 & 4)**: run `matlab/hover_recovery.m`
  * *Note*: After running this file, you can generate plots by running some of the commented lines in the `%% plots` code section:
  * **Figure 3**: run `plot_snapshots(X,T,T_snapshots,const);`
  * **Figure 4**: run `plot_x_u(T,X,U);`
  * **animation**: run `animate_quadrotor(T,X,const);`

* **region of attraction (Figure 5)**: run `matlab/region_of_attraction.m`
  * *Note*: This may take awhile. As an alternative, you can go to the bottom of the file and load previous results by running the commented line: `load region_of_attraction_results.mat`. Then, you can generate the plot by manually running the remaining lines of `region_of_attraction.m`.

# extras

* **calculation of the thrust and torque coefficients**: is explained in `matlab/propeller_calculations/propeller_coefficients_calculation.m`

* **arm motion animations**: run `matlab/plot/plot_arm_motions.m`
  * *Note*: Different motions can be generated by changing the `mode` variable in this file.

* **dynamics tests**: to test dynamics of the quadrotor for different initial conditions and/or control laws, run
`matlab/test_dynamics.m`

# notes

* In this code, we use Matlab's `lqr` command. While this command works for our system in prior versions of Matlab, it no longer works for versions 2019a or later (this is due to the poor scaling of our system). So, if this code is run in versions 2019a or later, instead of re-running the `lqr` command, our code will load previous LQR results from the `matlab/saved_results/lqr_results.mat` file.

* There is a small error in Fig. 5. Our choice of Euler angles has singularities at theta = +/- pi/2 (not phi = +/- pi/2), so the blue lines should be vertical.
